# EGM
# Yiqing Li, 10/20/2021
# Copyright: 2021 Yiqing Li (anne.yiqing.li@outlook.com)
# CC-BY-SA

Explorative gradient method for non-convex optimization of multiple parameters.
Instructions to use the EGM optimizer.

## Publication

Li, Y., Cui, W., Jia, Q., Li, Q., Yang, Z., Morzyński, M., & Noack, B. R. (2021).Explorative gradient method for active drag reduction of the fluidic pinball and slanted Ahmed body. Journal of Fluid Mechanics, 932, A7. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/jfm.2021.974

## Getting Started

Unzip the tar.gz file.

### Prerequisites

MATLAB is needed.
Machine learning tool box for MATLAB is needed.
This version has been developped on MATLAB version R2018b.
Please contact anne.yiqing.li@outlook.com in case of error.

### Content

The main folder should contain the following folders and files:
- *README.md*
- *Initialization.m* is a script to initialize.
- *Restart.m* is a script to restart the optimization.
- *@EGM/*, *@Esample/*, *@Gsimplex/*, *@Mtable/* defines the objects in EGM algorithm.
- *Tools/* contains functions and files not used by the EGM class objects.
- *Plant/* contains the problems and parameters.
- *save_runs/* contains the saved EGM object and figures.

### Initialization and run

To start, run matlab in the main folder.
Then run Initialization.m to load the path.

```
Initialization;
```

Create an EGM object to solve the toy problem.
Or specify a new problem to be solved, which should be defined in folder *Plant/*.

```
egm  = EGM();
egm = EGM('new_problem');
```


Start the iteration of optimization round by round.
Or run several rounds.
The first group of vertices in the sapce (a simplex including N+1 vertices with N variables) will evolve with the help of EGM which makes a balance of exploration and exploit.

```
egm.go; % To run 1 round.
egm.go(10); % To run 10 rounds.
```
### Post processing and analysis.

Print the information of the best vertex after the latest round.
Print the information of several best vertices after a certain round.
```
egm.best_vertex;
egm.best_vertices(num_th_round, num_best_vertices);
```

Visualize the learning curve of cost function. 
```
egm.learningCurve;
```

Visualize the control landscape during or after optimization. 
```
egm.controlLandscape(5); 
% Visualize the studied vertices in the former 5th round with proximity map generated by vertices in all rounds as background.

egm.controlLandscape;
% Visualize and save the final control landscape with all the studied vertices.    
```

Print and save the current figure.
```
egm.printFigure('Name_of_Figure');
```

### EGM parameters

EGM parameters are related to exploit and exploration steps.
For more details(like parameters about the problem), see *default_parameters.m*.

Gradient_simplex parameters include:
```
simplexMirrorStep = 1;
simplexContractStep = 0.5;
simplexExpandStep = 2;
simplexShrinkStep = 1/2;
simplexParam = ...
[simplexMirrorStep simplexContractStep simplexExpandStep simplexShrinkStep];
parameters.simplexParam = simplexParam; 
parameters.simplexSize = parameters.inputDimen + 1; 
% The simplex size is related to the problem, see *default_parameters.m*.
parameters.gradient_Nstep = 1;  
```
    
Exploration_sample parameters include:
```       
parameters.sampleSetSize = 1e3;
parameters.punishCost = 10;
parameters.exploration_Nstep = 1;  
```

### Save/Load

To avoid being overwritten, it is better to save and load with a given name of a run.
If not given, the EGM object is saved as 'EGM'.
For more details, see CheatSheet.m.
```
egm.save_results;
egm.load_obj('Name_of_Run');
```

## Version

Version 0.1.4.1

## Author

Yiqing Li

## License

EGM (Explorative Gradient Method) for non-convex optimization of multiple parameters. Copyright (c) 2019,Yiqing Li (anne.yiqing.li@outlook.com)

```
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
```

## Acknowledgments

* The author thanks Guy Y. Cornejo Maceda (https://www.cornejomaceda.com/) for help on the code organization. 
* The author also thanks Bernd R. Noack (http://berndnoack.com/) and Zhigang Yang for their precious guidance.


